Document conventions for constructing names in mangling docs (#33203)
apple/swift: docs/ABI/Mangling.rst

If the first character of the string literal is a digit ``[0-9]`` or an
underscore ``_``, the identifier for the string literal is prefixed with an
additional underscore ``_``.

> Conventions for constructing names
> ----------------------------------
> 
> Swift is a language that integrates with multiple languages (C, C++, ObjC,
> ObjC++). To achieve interoperability symbols from other languages have to be
> adapted in order to be integrated into Swift.

Reviewer: The phrasing here seems a little awkward. How does this sound?

```suggestion
Conventions for foreign symbols
----------------------------------

Swift interoperates with multiple other languages - C, C++, Objective-C, and Objective-C++. Each of these languages defines their own mangling conventions, so Swift must take care to follow them. However, these conventions do not restrict Swift-specific constructs like Swift type metadata, so the Swift language may impose its own conventions in these cases. 
```

Author: Much better, thanks!

Importing C and C++ structs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> C and C++ structs use their original names and their owning modules. Since Swift

Reviewer: > their original names and their owning modules

The two parts of this conjunct seem disconnected from one another. Perhaps we're missing an example, or perhaps it's just enough to leave it at "we don't touch the mangling of the original symbol".

Author: Went with "we don't touch the mangling of the original symbol". Thanks!

metadata symbols and value-witness-tables are not generated by the C compiler,
Swift generates them when C/C++ module is imported and stores them in the `__C`
module. This can be observed when mangling a Swift function that accepts a C/C++

> struct as a parameter.

Reviewer: This would be a great place to show e.g. the symbol name for a C/C++ function and its demangling versus the (de)mangling for its corresponding type descriptor.

Author: Done.

If the first character of the string literal is a digit ``[0-9]`` or an
underscore ``_``, the identifier for the string literal is prefixed with an
additional underscore ``_``.

Conventions for foreign symbols
-------------------------------

Swift interoperates with multiple other languages - C, C++, Objective-C, and
Objective-C++. Each of these languages defines their own mangling conventions,

> so Swift must take care to follow them. However, these conventions do not
> restrict Swift-specific constructs like Swift type metadata, so the Swift
> language may impose its own conventions in these cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
so Swift must take care to follow them. However, these conventions do not
cover Swift-specific symbols like Swift type metadata for foreign types, so Swift uses
its own mangling scheme for those symbols.
```

Importing C and C++ structs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> We don't touch the mangling of the original symbol. Since Swift metadata symbols
> and value-witness-tables are not generated by the C/C++ compiler, Swift generates
> them when C/C++ module is imported and stores them in the ``__C`` module. This can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Types imported from C and C++ are imported as if they are located in the ``__C`` module, regardless of the actual Clang module that they are coming from. This can be observed ...

<add the mangling example here>

The C/C++ compiler does not generate Swift metadata symbols and value witness tables for C and C++ types. To make a foreign type usable in Swift in the same way as a native type, the Swift compiler must generate these symbols. Specifically, each Swift module that uses a given C or C++ type generates the necessary Swift symbols.

<show the symbols here>

```

If the first character of the string literal is a digit ``[0-9]`` or an
underscore ``_``, the identifier for the string literal is prefixed with an
additional underscore ``_``.

Conventions for foreign symbols
-------------------------------

Swift interoperates with multiple other languages - C, C++, Objective-C, and
Objective-C++. Each of these languages defines their own mangling conventions,
so Swift must take care to follow them. However, these conventions do not cover
Swift-specific symbols like Swift type metadata for foreign types, so Swift uses
its own mangling scheme for those symbols.

Importing C and C++ structs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Types imported from C and C++ are imported as if they are located in the ``__C``
module, regardless of the actual Clang module that they are coming from. This
can be observed when mangling a Swift function that accepts a C/C++ struct as a
parameter:

> CxxStructModule:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
C++ module ``CxxStructModule``:
```

.. code-block:: c++

  struct CxxStruct {};

  inline void cxxFunction(CxxStruct s) {}

> Swift ``main`` module importing ``CxxStructModule``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Swift module ``main`` that imports ``CxxStructModule``:
```

.. code-block:: swift

  import CxxStructModule

  public func swiftFunction(_ s: CxxStruct) {}

Resulting symbols (showing only Itanium-mangled C++ symbols for brevity):

.. code::

  _Z11cxxFunction9CxxStruct // -> cxxFunction(CxxStruct)
  s4main13swiftFunctionyySo9CxxStructVF // -> main.swiftFunction(__C.CxxStruct) -> ()

> 

Reviewer 2: + "The reason for ignoring the Clang module and always putting C and C++ types into ``__C`` at the Swift ABI level is that the Clang module is not a part of the C or C++ ABI. When owners of C and C++ Clang modules decide what changes are ABI-compatible or not, they will likely take into account C and C++ ABI, but not the Swift ABI. Therefore, Swift ABI can only encode information about a C or C++ type that the C and C++ ABI already encodes in order to remain compatible with future versions of libraries that evolve according to C and C++ ABI compatibility principles."

Author: Added, thanks!

The C/C++ compiler does not generate Swift metadata symbols and value witness
tables for C and C++ types. To make a foreign type usable in Swift in the same
way as a native type, the Swift compiler must generate these symbols.
Specifically, each Swift module that uses a given C or C++ type generates the

> necessary Swift symbols. For the example above Swift will generate following
> nominal type descriptor symbol for ``CxxStruct``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
necessary Swift symbols. For the example above the Swift compiler will generate following
nominal type descriptor symbol for ``CxxStruct`` while compiling the ``main`` module:
```
